Upstreamize VM subscriptions guide (#3528)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/proc_deploying-a-virt-who-configuration-on-target-server.adoc

[id="deploying-a-virt-who-configuration-on-target-server_{context}"]
= Deploying a virt-who configuration on {a-target}

You can deploy a virt-who configuration for {provider} on {a-target}.
ifdef::vmware-el,nutanix-el,hyperv-el[]
The server can be physical or virtual.
endif::[]

Global configuration values apply to all virt-who configurations on this server and are overwritten if you deploy a new virt-who configuration.

ifdef::kvm-hypervisor,openstack-hypervisor,kubevirt-hypervisor[]
.Prerequisites
* You have registered the hypervisor to {ProjectServer}.
endif::[]
ifdef::vmware-el,nutanix-el,hyperv-el[]
.Prerequisites

> * You have registered {the-target} to {ProjectServer}. For more information, see {ProvisioningDocURL}registering_hosts_to_server_managing-hosts#Registering_Hosts_by_Using_Global_Registration_managing-hosts[Registering hosts by using global registration] in _{ProvisioningDocTitle}_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have registered {the-target} to {ProjectServer}.
For more information, see {ManagingHostsDocURL}Registering_Hosts_by_Using_Global_Registration_managing-hosts[Registering hosts by using global registration] in _{ManagingHostsDocTitle}_.
```

issue: broken xref. See https://docs.theforeman.org/nightly/Managing_Hosts/index-katello.html#Registering_Hosts_by_Using_Global_Registration_managing-hosts

endif::[]

.Procedure
ifdef::vmware-el,nutanix-el,hyperv-el[]
. Log in to {the-target}.
. Add a TCP port for communication between virt-who and {ProjectServer} to the runtime configuration:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
$ firewall-cmd --add-port="{port}/tcp"
----

. Add a TCP port for communication between virt-who and {ProjectServer} to the permanent configuration:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----

> $ firewall-cmd --add-port="{port}/tcp" --permanent

Reviewer: question (non-blocking): unsure if line 27 is necessary if you run line 34. Maybe there's a command that does both at the same time?

Author: I checked the [firewall-cmd man page](https://firewalld.org/documentation/man-pages/firewall-cmd.html). Looks like it requires 2 separate commands:

> If you want to make a change in runtime and permanent configuration, use the same call with and without the --permanent option.
